============
Installation
============

JustDeepIt application is written in Python.
The stable releases of JustDeepIt have been tested
on the following OS under Python 3.8 and 3.9 environments:

- Ubuntu 20.04
- Debian 11.4
- macOS 12.3 (Intel / M2)

The source code and built package of JustDeepIt
are available through GitHub (`biunit/JustDeepIt <https://github.com/biunit/JustDeepIt>`_)
and Python Package Index (`PyPI: JustDeepIt <https://pypi.org/project/JustDeepIt/>`_), respectively.
A Dockerfile is also provided to make it easier
for users to install JustDeepIt.
Users can install JustDeepIt into a platform directly by using source code
or PyPI package or install JustDeepIt into virtual container using Dockerfile.


Installation via PyPI 
---------------------

JustDeepIt requires one of
`MMDetection <https://mmdetection.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ or
`Detectron2 <https://detectron2.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
to build object detection model.
Thus, before the installation of JustDeepIt,
we recommend installing MMDetection and Detectron2
(and also `PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/>`_) first with
the recommended procedures depending on CUDA version.
The following is an example of installing
PyTorch, MMDetection, and Detectron2 under a CUDA 11.3 environment.


.. code-block:: bash
    
    pip install --upgrade pip
    
    # PyTorch
    pip install torch==1.11.0 torchvision --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113
    
    # MMDetection
    pip install mmcv-full
    git clone https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection.git mmdetection
    pip install -r ./mmdetection/requirements/build.txt
    pip install ./mmdetection
    
    # Detectron2
    pip install 'git+https://github.com/facebookresearch/fvcore'
    git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2 detectron2
    pip install ./detectron2 


.. note::
    
    JustDeepIt requires one of MMDetection or Detectron2
    to build object detection model.
    Thus, user can also install one instead of both packages.
    Currently, MMDetection supports more architectures than Detectron2
    and supports GPUs training.
    Detectron2 supports training with both CPUs and GPUs.
   

Then, install the latest stable version of JustDeepIt from PyPI with :code:`pip` command.


.. code-block:: bash
    
    pip install justdeepit




Installation via source code
----------------------------

To install JustDeepIt from source, first install PyTroch,
MMDetection, and Detectron2 following the above description,
and then run the following commands to download and install JustDeepIt with its dependencies.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    git clone https://github.com/biunit/JustDeepIt.git JustDeepIt
    cd JustDeepIt
    
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    pip install .



Installation via Dockerfile
---------------------------

Dockerfile of JustDeepIt is available on
GitHub (`biunit/JustDeepIt/docker <https://github.com/biunit/JustDeepIt/tree/main/docker>`_)
and can be downloaded to build the image using the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/biunit/JustDeepIt/main/docker/Dockerfile
    
    docker build -t justdeepit:local --no-cache  \
                 --build-arg base=11.6.2-cudnn8-devel-ubuntu20.04 .


Note that the argument :code:`base` is used to specify a Docker image
that supports GPU computation and
should be changed according to the individual platform environments.
Usually, the images can be found from
`Dockerhub:nvdia/cuda <https://hub.docker.com/r/nvidia/cuda>`_.
For example, the latest version of Docker image for
cuda 11.6, cudnn 8, and Ubuntu 20.04 is stored with the tag
`11.6.2-cudnn8-devel-ubuntu20.04 <https://hub.docker.com/r/nvidia/cuda/tags?page=1&name=11.6.2-cudnn8-devel-ubuntu20.04>`_.
Installation takes approximately 20 minutes,
depending on the computer hardware and network speed.

After building the Docker image,
the Docker container can be generated by running the following command.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    docker image ls
    # REPOSITORY    TAG                               IMAGE ID       CREATED        SIZE
    # justdeepit    local                             19bcfd96c278   1 hours ago    14.7GB
    # nvidia/cuda   11.6.2-cudnn8-devel-ubuntu20.04   d64238d69fda   3 weeks ago    7.7GB
    
    docker run --gpus all -v $(pwd):/home/appuser -p 8000:8000 --rm -it justdeepit:local


Then, JustDeepIt can be started by executing the folloiwng command on the Docker container.
In this case, JustDeepIt can be accessed via web browser at \http://0.0.0.0:8000.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    justdeepit --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
    # INFO:uvicorn.error:Started server process [61]
    # INFO:uvicorn.error:Waiting for application startup.
    # INFO:uvicorn.error:Application startup complete.
    # INFO:uvicorn.error:Uvicorn running on http://0.0.0.0:8000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)



How to check the version of cuda, cudnn, and platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The version of cuda can be checked using the following command.
In this case, the version of cuda is 11.6.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    nvcc -V
    # nvcc: NVIDIA (R) Cuda compiler driver
    # Copyright (c) 2005-2022 NVIDIA Corporation
    # Built on Tue_Mar__8_18:18:20_PST_2022
    # Cuda compilation tools, release 11.6, V11.6.124
    # Build cuda_11.6.r11.6/compiler.31057947_0


The version of cudnn can be checked using the following command.
In this case, the major version of cudnn is 8.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    dpkg -l | grep "cudnn"
    # ii  cudnn-local-repo-ubuntu2004-8.4.0.27 1.0-1 amd64
    
The type and version of platform can be checked using the following command.
In this case, the type and version of platform are Ubuntu 20.04.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    uname -v 
    # 44~20.04.1-Ubuntu SMP Thu Mar 24 16:43:35 UTC 2022


